# Spotify Listening Tracker
This is a personal Spotify listening history tracking pipeline. It connects to the Spotify Web API to fetch 
recently played tracks (can call upto 50 recent tracks), stores them locally in a structured CSV format, 
and enhances them with additional metadata such as track duration and artist genres.
The system is built to run incrementally, updating only new records and maintaining JSON-based caches for artist and 
song metadata.

You can also manually update missing or ambiguous metadata—especially useful for instrumental or 
lesser-known tracks where Spotify may not provide genre information. The search feature seems to yield no results for
a surprisingly large number of artists.

## Getting Started:
- You will need to access and create a new app in [Spotify developer dashboard](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard)
and generate your own client id and secret for your Spotify listening account (This is free).
- Add them to a `.env` file in your project similar to `.env_example`.

## Scripts:
- `extract_script.py` - The main script that calls the Spotify Web API and generates the main CSV file and 
stores in `./data/spotify_data_<current_year>.csv`.
The results of all runs (automated or otherwise) are recorded in
`auto_extract_log.txt` with appropriate timestamp information.
- `extract_with_metadata.py` - This script searches for an organizes the genre and track duration and adds them as two 
columns in addition to the existing DataFrame generated by `extract_script`. 
Stored as `./data/spotify_data_with_metadata_<current_year>.csv`. 
Also generates metadata files `./metadata/artist_metadata.json`, `./metadata/song_metadata.json` 
and `./metadata/missing_queries.json`
- `spotify_logger.bat` - The batch file used with the Windows Task Scheduler to run the `extract_script.py` every hour
to check for recent history. This ensures tracks listened to are recorded well within the 50 track limit.